what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose we've
actually done it it's so crazy to say
out loud but recently this channel has
passed 100,000 subscribers I never would
have thought this would happen back when
I started my youtube channel and still
I'm pretty sure I don't really
understand what it means to have a
channel with a hundred thousand
subscribers it's impossible for me to
sort of quantify that number and put
into perspective that a hundred thousand
people have decided to click the
subscribe button on my youtube channel
it's really crazy but I'm also very
excited and I can't wait to see where it
goes from here ever since I hit 100,000
subscribers I've been feeling very
reminiscent very nostalgic and so in
today's video I wanted to go through
sort of my journey on YouTube how it is
that I started and how we got to be
where we are today alright so let me
take you guys way way back and give you
the backstory to my youtube channel a
lot of you guys want to know this but
I've actually been making videos for a
very long time now way before this karma
medic YouTube channel I used to make
videos on all kinds of different things
mostly me and my friends for example
playing basketball or me making a little
mini hoop compilation in my bedroom and
even before then I was screen recording
myself playing call of duty and making
little montages out of cool clips that I
would collect while playing video games
so yeah I'd be making all kinds of
videos for quite some time now I think
that editing aspect is what really made
me appreciate video as a medium for
creativity so I've been watching others
on YouTube throughout all of my high
school and university years YouTube was
my main source of entertainment it was
something that I really really enjoyed
but I never actually thought about
making videos myself until I got
accepted to medical school now my
journey to medical school wasn't exactly
the easiest thing it took a lot of
effort and honestly just an insane
amount of work over a long period of
time and so when I was finally accepted
I think it was one of the proudest
moments of my life I was so happy I was
overwhelmed with joy and one of the
first things that I thought about after
I opened the acceptance letter was that
I want to help other people do the exact
same thing when I was applying to
medical schools there was almost no free
information on how to do well on your
entrance exams how to perform well in
interviews and anything like that and
over the years of applying to medical
school I felt like I become so
knowledgeable in that space and that if
I could share that information it would
be valuable to a lot of other people and
so in March of 2018 I decided you know
what I'm gonna set up my camera on my
desk this very desk over here and
start making videos hi my name is Nasir
karma I'm 22 years old and I won't start
making YouTube videos I had no idea what
I was doing I was so nervous and I was
so shy and you can really tell if you go
back and watch that video but honestly
that wasn't the point I knew that I had
really valuable information that could
help a lot of other people and even if I
look like an idiot doing it I wanted to
get that information out there if you go
back and watch my earlier videos you'll
see that I didn't care one bit about
what my hair looked like what I was
wearing what the background looked like
I mean now I have a meal and sign for
God's sake like things have changed so
much but back then I really didn't care
about anything else the only priority
that I had was helping other students
get accepted to medical school there's
this quote that I absolutely love I'm
pretty sure I heard it on a Matt dia
Bella video and the co goes something
along the lines of if you're not taking
action then you're standing still and I
feel like that is so true and it's very
applicable to YouTube I really believe
that if you want to start something just
go out and do it your first 10 20 50
videos are gonna be really bad and
that's fine that's part of the learning
experience and that's how you're going
to improve and get better alright so
this was at the end of my first year
back in March of 2018 I just started
making videos on absolutely anything
that I could anything that I felt like I
had knowledge on that I could share with
others and benefit other people so I
started with my journey to medical
school I talked about my interviews how
to socialize a university and one of
those topics that I felt like I was very
knowledgeable on was the UK the UK
count if you don't know is now called
the UK and it's one of the medical
school entrance exams here in the UK
this video really blew up for me back
then I think I got something like 100 or
200 views in the first week that I put
it out and that was in comparison to the
10 to 20 views that I was getting on the
videos before so comparatively it was
doing very very well and I know a
hundred views sounds very low to you
guys right now but I was so happy back
then if a video got a hundred views I
was ecstatic you know that was a hundred
individual people that were watching my
content commenting on my videos leaving
me likes it was amazing and you guys
were leaving comments on the videos
letting me know that you were actually
finding them useful and it was helping
you improve your scores and so I felt
like I was actually being valuable to
the community now once that you can't
video did really well I started getting
a lot of comments and requests to make
other UConn videos and so I started this
series about the UK exam where I was
teaching people how
to tackle every section of that exam and
how to do well and because there was
nobody else making videos like this on
YouTube I ended up picking up some
traction and gaining some interest from
viewers like you so this is the time
when my channel started to grow a little
bit and by grow I mean going from zero
subscribers to something like 30 and
then from 30 to 60 I think I hit 200
subscribers something like two or three
months into making videos I just wanted
to say a huge thank you for us reaching
200 subscribers took about two months to
reach the first hundred and then just
over a week to get to 200 so the
channels been growing really fast so it
took a very long time and remember
that's me making videos every single
week it wasn't like I made one video and
then just like waited and a couple
months later I got some subscribers I
was making videos every single week
pretty much as often as I could have
because I was working a full-time job in
Canada at the same time so yeah things
were really hectic but finish my job at
like 5:00 6:00 p.m. comes straight home
and work on making a new YouTube video
edit it get it ready for the next day oh
it was so so so hectic I thought if the
content and the value of the video was
good enough then that would be enough to
bring people in and watch my videos once
I finished the Yukon series I wanted to
continue making content that was
educational that could directly help
people get accepted to medical school
and so I moved on to a series about the
MMI interview started talking about how
to tackle specific questions in the MMI
interview and you guys seem to love
those videos as well they were getting a
lot of interaction my views were
starting to pick up and by that I mean I
would get something like 500 views on a
video and I was ecstatic I was that's
the best thing ever so after making
videos every single week for half of a
year we had finally reached 1,000
subscribers I got this glass jar and I
filled it with M&Ms of the same color as
the caramel medic logo I did that to
commemorate our 1k subscribers goal this
was an absolutely huge milestone for me
I was so happy and so excited that a
thousand people had physically decided
that they wanted to click subscribe on
my channel
it was a huge achievement and I'm still
very proud of that till today now at
this point in my youtube journey or
YouTube career whatever we want to call
it I started thinking that it might be
cool to make videos now aren't a hundred
percent dedicated to education maybe I
could make some videos that were more
personal and focused more on me as a
person so I continued making educational
content
that would help other students get
accepted to medical school and that
would add value to other people's lives
and at the same time I would dabble and
experiment with some of the more
personal videos to some of the videos
that I made that were more along those
personal lines where videos like what's
in my medical school bag my desk sets up
tour and also things like how to take
notes in college how to take notes on
your iPad things like that so fast
forward a couple of months now I was
still making educational content I even
started making more you cat videos
because the whole year had passed and
next cycle of medical school admissions
was coming around I was making more
UConn videos more videos about a levels
and IB exam revision things like that
and then one day I was like you know
what let me try making a vlog now vlogs
were something that I really didn't want
to do because I thought they would be so
much work and it would be so
embarrassing to film myself in public
and it would just be really difficult
and challenging for me and all those
things blogs definitely were there was a
very steep learning curve for me to be
able to take my camera out in public and
talk to the camera in public and I still
get nervous about that even till today
and then one random day in May when I
was studying for my final year exams of
second year I decided to make a medical
school study vlog and it's this video
here you guys have probably seen it
because most of you will have found my
channel from this video oh man that
video really changed everything for my
channel I recorded 250 gigabytes of
footage for that video let me tell you
I'm never doing that again
I think that video took me upwards of 20
hours of editing I think I did it over
about a week I was even editing on the
fly on the way to Toronto to start my
next job in the summer but I guess it
was worth it in the end because that
video actually went viral and it's so
weird to say out loud that a video that
I made went viral on YouTube but it
really did in the first week or so it
got 7,000 views I think it was like
tripled the next best video had ever
done on my channel and then after one
week it just skyrocketed over the next
month or two it reached somewhere
between 100 and 300 thousand views I
don't remember exactly but it was an
absolutely insane growth at the time -
that video went viral I have been making
videos every single week for a year and
three months or a year and four months
and I had reached 7000 subscribers over
the course of the summer with not video
going viral and then the videos that I
put out after it also doing very well I
ended the summer with 45,000
subscribers that video currently has
over 1 million views which is just
insane insane insane insane it's crazy
a video that I've made has over a
million views I I don't even know what
to say about that and ivory watched that
video probably a hundred times trying to
figure out what went so well about it
what people enjoyed what gave it that
secret sauce that made it do so well and
honestly I just have no idea there's a
quote that I think is very appropriate
here and it goes something along the
lines of luck is like a bus if you miss
one there's always going to be another
one but if you're not prepared you're
not gonna be able to jump on and I think
for me I had been making videos every
single week for a year and a half and so
it was about time that that bus came
that I was able to jump on and my video
went viral and just everything worked
out I think if I hadn't been making
videos so consistently and learning so
much each week from making videos from
uploading videos researching about how
to make videos how to improve them then
I wouldn't have been in the position for
my video to go viral I was in Toronto on
that time again working a full-time job
in research and I remember waking up at
like 6 a.m. every single day to be able
to respond to all the comments that were
coming in I would wake up and there
would be like 150 comments and I would
sit down and reply and give the little
heart every single one of them I was so
so so excited to interact with people
say welcome to my channel to give
someone advice if they were asking me
about medical school or whatever it was
it was an absolutely crazy time of
growth for the channel and I was just so
excited about everything that was
happening I really really cherish that
time and then ever since that video last
June I've just continued to put out
videos every single week when I go back
to medical school in my third year I
could see that the vlogs on my channel
we're doing very well people really seem
to enjoy them and wanted more so I
continued making more of those types of
videos while also sprinkling in
educational content and doubling with
all kinds of different things that I
just found fun for example meal prepping
videos how to take notes videos study
with me videos just anything that I want
to make really and that's part of what I
love about this youtube channel is that
I make videos that I really enjoy videos
that I want to make and I find fun and
hopefully at the same time add value to
your lives in one way or another and
yeah here we are in January of 2020 and
we have reached 100,000 subs
when you see this video I will have
taken a two-week break from uploading
just because I felt like I was
consistently running for the last year
and a half every single week filming
recording coming up with ideas editing
publishing videos I felt like I was just
on a train that was in full-speed going
going going going and I just needed to
stop for a bit but now that that break
is over I'm ready to get back into it
making weekly content for the rest of
2020 YouTube is honestly such a great
way to spend my spare time while I'm at
medical school it's helped me grow so
much not only as a person but also
learning skills and expanding my
creativity and just it's been so
valuable to me I want to keep growing
and see where I'll be in January of 2021
alright guys and I think that's where
I'm gonna leave this video I hope you've
enjoyed hearing about my youtube journey
from the very beginning up until where
we are now if you did please do leave a
like on this video and also subscribe to
my channel to see more content from me
in the future as always I will see you
in the next one peace